Dear brothers, sisters, faithful children, and interested ones, it is a great pleasure
to be with you for this update.
We have many good things to share with you, including an update on our response to several
major natural disasters.
And at the end of this update, it will be a privilege to share with you our reassuring
your texts for 2022.
To begin though, I have some important facts about COVID-19 vaccines to share with you,
because we love you all very much, and because this is a life and death matter, we have decided
to share what we know about this with you.
It's June 1st, in the United States, 1,407 publishers have been hospitalized because
of COVID-19 or its symptoms.
Of these, less than 1% were fully vaccinated.
Sadly, in that same time period in the United States, 486 of our brothers died from COVID-19.
And our understanding is that the vaccinated individuals who died had serious underlying
health problems.
These statistics are very sobering.
We can also tell you that of more than 22,000 betholites and 44,000 special full-time servants
in the field who have been vaccinated, we have received only four reports of severe
adverse reactions that may be linked to the vaccination.
But thankfully, it's been reported that all of these are stable and their condition
is under control.
We share this information with you so you can carefully consider it when making your personal
decision regarding vaccination.
We feel it would not be loving to withhold these facts from you.
This proverb's 327 says, do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it.
We know it can be difficult to make a wise decision when there are various opinions
and conflicting reports that the world provides, perhaps making it hard to know what to believe.
But the aforementioned statistics have been collected by our brothers so we can trust
these figures.
We hope they will be useful to you.
We appreciate that this is not a scientific study, but we can tell you what our brothers
have observed.
And because we have this information, we want you to know what we know.
Of course, we also need to consider the direction provided by the superior authorities.
In some lands, governments are enacting laws that all their citizens must be vaccinated.
In other lands, it is strongly encouraged.
How do we react to such direction?
The remaining God's love book made a fine point when it said this.
Today, Jehovah allows governments to have some authority, and we should respect them.
They organize countries and communities so that they function smoothly and provide people
with necessary services.
These obey the instruction found at Romans 13-1-7.
We respect the superior authorities and obey the laws of the country or community where
we live.
These laws may affect our family, business, or possessions.
Also the study note on Romans 13-5 says this.
A Christian submits to human governments when a command does not contradict God's laws.
So this is another serious factor that we each should carefully and prayerfully consider
in making our decision.
As a result of having over 99% of the United States Bethel family fully vaccinated, we have
been able to open up more activities within Bethel in accord with New York State regulations.
This allowed the Bethel family to have the Gilead meal together and then the Gilead graduation
on September 11.
No gas from outside Bethel were present for either occasion.
Also, fully vaccinated Bethel family members in the United States have received permission
to take personal time to visit family and friends taking proper COVID-19 precautions
while away from Bethel.
In fact, as of September 24, over 3,975 fully vaccinated Bethel family members in the
United States have traveled during August and September.
Upon their return to Bethel, they're put on a form of adjusted quarantine and a few days
later are tested for COVID-19.
Of these 3,975, we have had just four COVID cases.
Two, got mild cases of COVID at their destination and it resolved before they returned to Bethel.
The other two, who tested positive on return, also had minor symptoms that quickly resolved.
All four have fully recovered.
We're happy to report that this arrangement will soon go into effect for our Bethelites
at most branches around the world.
We're able to do this at branches where more than 90% of the Bethel family are fully vaccinated.
Those branches are getting back into a more normal routine.
But now we have a brief update about how our brothers are doing after recent natural disasters
in Haiti and in the United States.
As reported in JW News, a magnitude 7.2 earthquake struck Haiti on Saturday, August 14.
Sadly, three witnesses died as a result.
Our hearts go out to the families of these wines.
The branch office recently provided this report on the relief efforts.
The earthquake destroyed approximately 130 of the homes where our brothers were living
and damaged another 250.
On Monday, August 16, two days after the earthquake, tarps arrived for many of our brothers
just ahead of the rains of tropical storm grace.
Since then, we have distributed over three tons of supplies and 28 tons of food to our brothers.
Tents, tarps, blankets, mattresses, water filtration kits, solar-powered flashlights
and solar chargers have been distributed.
Additionally, volunteers are working hard to evaluate and inspect the homes of our brothers.
Although in difficult economic situations themselves, the local brothers in the capital of Port-apprents
have generously donated tons of food.
The United States experienced Hurricane Ida, which made landfall as a category 4 hurricane
on August 29.
The storm passed from the Gulf Coast to the Northeast.
The branch office reports that as of September 20, 2,788 of our brothers who evacuated
are not yet able to return to their homes.
It is estimated to be several weeks before the power is restored in some areas.
The storm damaged over 1,800 homes of our brothers and destroyed 28 more.
In addition, 58 kingdom halls and four assembly halls were damaged.
Under the direction of the circuit overseers, local brothers and sisters quickly began to
stabilize hundreds of homes damaged by the storm.
Two disaster relief committees are providing tarps, materials, food, water and generators
when local supplies are exhausted.
All of this activity is being carried out with proper safety standards and appropriate
COVID-19 precautions.
We are grateful for the hard work of all who are helping with the relief efforts, including
all of you who have contributed financially.
Thank you for your generosity and kindness.
But now let's discuss our 2022 year text.
When the pandemic began, we had no idea it would still be of concern one and a half years
later.
It has impacted the economy of many lands.
As a result, people, including many of our brothers and sisters, do not have much
material.
Some only have meager provisions, including a scarcity of food.
It reminds us of fateful David of old.
He was not being hounded by a deadly virus, but he was running and trying to hide from
Jealous King Saul, who was intent on killing David and those with him.
Prophesians were low.
There was very little to eat, and David lost his home for a time, hiding out in caves
in the wilderness.
While things were very bleak materially, it was at this time that David composed the beautiful
song recorded in Psalm 34.
Was he distracted from his worship of Jehovah?
Was he gloomy and dejected during that difficult time?
Well, let's read a few verses from Psalm 34 and see how David was regarding his attitude.
From Psalm 34, verse 1, I will praise Jehovah at all times.
His praise will be on my lips constantly.
And then in verse 3, he encouraged others to join him in praising Jehovah.
Verse 3, David said, magnified Jehovah along with me.
Let us exalt his name together.
What a beautiful attitude, despite the hardships he was facing at the time.
So many of you dear brothers and sisters are struggling economically during this time of
pandemic and uncertainty.
But the governing body wanted me to share with you, especially verse 10 of Psalm 34.
Verse 10, even strong young lions have been reduced to hunger.
But those seeking Jehovah will lack nothing good.
The last part of that verse is the year text for 2022.
Those seeking Jehovah will lack nothing good, Psalm 34, verse 10.
Now obviously, as we've been discussing, David was not referring to an abundance of physical
sustenance.
We remember the 23rd Psalm where David said something similar.
He said, Jehovah is my shepherd, I will lack nothing.
The rest of that Psalm refers to spiritual blessings enjoyed, even though he admitted
he walked, quote, in the valley of deep shadow.
Throughout that Psalm, he extolls the spiritual blessings he enjoyed.
He concluded by saying at Psalm 236, and I will dwell in the house of Jehovah for all
my days.
And that is the prayer of all of Jehovah's fateful servants in these critical times.
Dear friends, the coronavirus is not the worst trial to strike out at all mankind.
And it won't be the last.
We can expect things to deteriorate even further.
As these last days march on to their end.
Economic hardship and other trials will come and go.
But like the Psalmist, we can agree that the 2022 year text will prove true, spiritually
speaking.
The Psalm 3410 states, those seeking Jehovah will lack nothing good.
Dear brothers and sisters, we truly and deeply love you all very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.